our packs between parties and tactical
voting just cheating the electorate well
there's been quite a bit of that going
on this election and I have to say more
than I can ever remember in the time
I've been covering politics Alex oh why
well this is the question I've been
looking forward to because actually do
you know what Simon I think pacts are
such a disappointment I think that every
voter in this country should be able to
have their first choice of candidates
and that party should campaign on merit
on policies not on blackmail not on fear
so you must be very unhappy with your
leader then I'm very disappointed in
what's happened but I want to give your
vote to squadron Nigel Farage I'm not
disappointed with my son disappointed in
the situation he's found himself in
which i think is a result of this
ongoing duo Polly and I want to make
very clear tonight that what we have
witnessed in the last few weeks and
actually today especially this key
moment in the electoral cycle when we
are supposed to be sending forth
candidates to meet a deadline and say
they're standing in this constituency
there has been an operation coming out
of CC HQ coming out of 10 Downing Street
what is under the Tory tree this
Christmas if it's a peerage is it
penance have you been naughty or have
you been nice
they have been interfering in our
selection of candidates are placing of
candidates
they've been incentivizing people to
step down it has been interference on an
industrial scale they have been acting
like feudal overlords frankly they think
that suffrage is something that's
universal if it just applies to their
party what are they afraid of that they
have had to go after thousands of phone
calls to individual candidates from the
brexit party to say stand down you can
get this or stand down or this leave us
alone if you can't win on your own
merits then really you shouldn't be a
chairman of a party in this country go
to Venezuela this is a multi-party state
and you guys have to get used to that
well we've certainly got going
everywhere
you care to respond to Alex I didn't
agree with electoral PACs which is why
we as the Conservative Party haven't
done one we put candidates across the
country we we are a party that campaigns
in all parts of the United Kingdom Alex
is talking Alexa's talking well alex has
made some very well I'd say pretty
serious allegations about yeah I found
it okay so you're saying that what alex
is saying and what nitrifiers has talked
today about eight candidates in
particular being offered peerages by the
Conservative Party is not true because
you'd know I would know and it hasn't
happened I mean the so the point the
point I'd make we have not made and we
do not make deals with other political
parties we have stood candidates in
every part of the United Kingdom we have
been asked to make election pacts but
I'm very much of the belief that
political parties should put forward an
agenda against which they are judged the
only pact that we have made is with the
British people and it's that if they
return a majority Conservative
government we will put the brexit deal
the Prime Minister's negotiated to
Parliament as soon as we get back we
will get out of the European Union by
the 31st of January and then we will
deliver on the priorities of the British
people that's the deal that we have made
and the deal is with the British people
and that is the only deal that we're
gonna do so when Boris Johnson was
talking on Sunday night about the
fantastic new trade agreement with the
EU by the end of 20 will not extend the
transition period beyond the end of 2020
which for many people is the first
they'd heard of that
that wasn't a message to Nigel Farage
that wasn't a cue to him to be able to
stand down exit party candidates in Tory
health seats so we've made it clear
right from the get-go that the only way
that brexit is going to be delivered as
if the Conservative Party in government
has a sustainable working majority
that's what we're working towards
and we have said that we aspire to get a
good trading relationship with the
European Union but also a series of
trading relationships across other
countries around the world that's what
we are offering with regard to brexit
but what we're also doing with the only
party that is doing this we're saying
that we have a plan we have a deal
that's ready to go and a plan to get
that delivered through the Commons by
the end of January so we can then get on
with investing in our public services
supporting innovation investing in
transport delivering on the priorities
of the British people assignment you
asked a question what's your view I just
think if there are five parties you
should have a candidate for each one and
it should be your choice if they start
getting pulled out for different reasons
we're the ones getting treated do you
think you're being deprived of choice
yeah definitely so lose office Lee
that's exactly what this Romania lies
that slide come Ria's part of this we're
doing is withdrawing candidate from
certain seats to allow the strongest
candidate who's four remain to stand and
what I would ask the question to you
Simon is that we have this anachronistic
first-past-the-post system in the United
Kingdom and that frankly does not work
in favour of the issue a question you
know the issue the crisis of our times
whichever way you look at it is how
we're going to resolve brexit and within
within Wales but working with a remain
reliance of the Lib Dems and the Green
Party looking actually to give the OP
the option to voters as who do you vote
if you want to vote for remain in this
general election then who is the best
shot that you have of getting a remain
party back in otherwise what we're
hearing and we heard this from brexit
and from the Tories I'm wonder we might
hear it from labor - from somebody
looking at the outside at Westminster
this is all about the interests of the
big parties and they're arguing amongst
themselves about how best to do that and
there's something rather ironic to me
about listening to James talking about
but that the Tories here but also with
the brexit party as well and you know
Alex does seem that you were somewhat
miffed about the present situation with
the Tory party but why has Nigel
Florence got himself into this position
well it's really
he's being cursed by his own success
because if you look at the state of the
Tory party now what used to be a
friendly family Labrador like to present
itself as that has now actually become a
rabid pit bull and the state of politics
in the United Kingdom what we should be
doing as politicians and I would hope
that many of us as politicians got into
politics to make a difference to our
communities but what we've got here is
just the interests of the parties rather
than the major issue and politicians
should be dealing with issues and with
our vote at voting arrangement as things
stand this is the best way of answering
that conundrum I'm not sure anyone would
ever describe Margaret Thatcher is
another family Labrador but you know
call me old-fashioned yes the man in the
glasses er um you're talking about the
job of politicians let me tell you what
the job of a politician is to do is to
represent the their constituents to vote
with what they wanted seventeen point
four million people voted to leave the
European Union and there's one party
representing the will of the people and
that's the one party that has promised
to leave the European Union with a very
good deal negotiated by our prime
minister and that's a Conservative Party
very frustrating because you say we
laugh and we vote Italy you're in
brighton and hove 68% of us voted to
remain
because they get so frustrated about
this we are a country divided I think we
can all agree on that the Tories
wouldn't break the party want this No
Deal terrible deal it's going to be time
for our country Liberal Democrats they
want to cancel BRICS it which in my
heart I'd love to do but we can't
because that would just be terrible for
our country
the irony option as far as I can see is
to go to a separate second referendum
are you convinced by that at all
absolutely not my answer would you to be
you either if you want a second
referendum you either vote for the
Liberal Democrats who will scrap rights
it will stop what do you write for labor
people going through the deal and now
campaign against I won't do my goodness
what sort of policy is that my question
is this what makes you feel qualified to
claim that if there was a second
referendum that people would vote
differently this country voted to leave
the European Union and under our
constitutional rule of law it is our job
to represent public opinion and a
government's job to deliver the will of
the British people and that's what the
Conservative Party will do
it's very childish and petulant actually
because we're divided and we need to
compromise the labor got the Labour
Party are now saying that they will
renegotiate a deal that protects workers
right and workers rights and the
environment so the Conservatives don't
care about at all they'll put that back
to the people and there remain will be
on the ballot now that to me it seems
like a really sensible compromise ok
well let's let's come back to to the
panel and the original question which is
about our pacts between parties and
tactical voting just cheating the
electorate clion you see they were doing
any pink no I can't
and I think agreeing with Liz I think
the reason that parties are forced into
these pacts in the first place by and
large is because we have an electoral
system that isn't fit for the 19th
century they learn 20th and 21st and I
think we understand that we can see that
what you're trying to force into
politics it's a political system which
simply isn't working at the moment we
need to need to modernize it and get
into the 21st century make it
proportional so then people though they
feel their vote actually means something
and we saw what happens in a referendum
and people actually feel their vote
means something they come out and they
vote where I disagree with Liz is that I
don't quite agree that the remain
alliance is strictly just about stopping
brexit because if it was you wouldn't be
standing remain alliance candidates in
alleys northwest in Cardiff central in
Exeter where you have Labour MPs who
have fought tooth and nail to remain
inside the European Union they are
remainer so this is I think also about
how you can gain some political
advantage I think that's fair to say I'm
having a dig I think we just have to be
honest about what the remain alliance is
about but when it comes to the brexit
party in the Conservatives and I did
enjoy watching my exchange I must say
guilty pleasure I think the point that
was made was that there has been no
electoral pact made with a political by
political party the Conservative Party
does not make pass
political parties well first of all you
don't need to because you have now
become the brexit party in effect and
secondly you don't need to make a pact
with a political party there isn't one
this is Nigel Farage's personal fiefdom
as addicts another
have now found out there is no democracy
in that party Nigel Farage can do
exactly what he wants and he has and I
think that tells you everything you need
to know about the brexit party it isn't
actually a political party it is an
armed it is a wing of Nigel Farage's own
personal political perspective on what
he wants to happen and that's good what
do you make of all this can you see a
value in impact between parties when
we're in a situation now well I think
it's a it's a product of circumstance
when people are trying to use whatever
mechanism is available to them to get
that the result that they clearly feel
passionate about I've seen a lot of
passion here so I think it's inevitable
people will find a way with the system I
personally agree with the lady in the
audience that the only sensible thing
you can do after three years of intense
information and what this is going to
mean why would you just ask and say
listen are you sure you want to do this
as much almost exactly the same as the
liberal Daniel Lib Dem position would
represent my views I don't think you can
do that you cannot ignore more than
seventeen million half of the population
just over half of the population you
cannot ignore those views but I think
it's crazy to have three years of
learning and it treats the population as
children's they know you can't have
another say that's it and to say that we
can't wait six months or you know are
another referendum well actually this is
the rest of our future so a few more
months it's actually worth the wait
the new top towards the back then how
can you say that the Conservative Party
doesn't do deals with other with other
parties when you're in coalition with
the Lib Dems for five years and you've
just come out of a supply an agreement
arrangement with the DUP until they
didn't suit your purpose anymore
so the question was about electoral PACs
and we don't do electoral PACs with
other parties in the it did you just
said our packs between parties tactical
versus just cheating the electorate so
packing parties possibly it's a fair
point you coalition and you say why with
the DUP when a when a party doesn't have
the numbers to form a majority
government on its own it has to enter
into a arrangement with other political
parties after the election that is very
different to making a pre-election pact
because if you do that before the
election as we've discussed you are
denying voters the opportunity to the
election and after the election you have
to deal with the circumstances as you
find them and that's what we did in 2010
and in 2017 so why are you phoning
why are you maybe not you I don't know
what you've been up to today but why
have loads of people conservative party
been phoning candidates for my party
begging them to stand out offering them
this threatening them that why have you
been doing this if that's not a form of
trying to form some sort of strange
operate Malick's hat how do you know
this how do you know this is true
because even personal messages from
people saying yes it's happened to me
and yes it's happened to me now either
I've got a whole load of people telling
me these things are happening and
they're all simultaneously lying about
it or something is afoot here and I find
it alarming that the party that's just
beating government is using their power
of patronage to essentially coerce
candidates and a different party to not
learn in a free and fair election I
think that's a bad sign for democracy
look it doesn't matter how do you vote
okay you don't have to love the brexit
part you don't have to love Nigel Farage
but I think it's not right when a party
with power who's been in government is
using that by offering titbits and
promises or lord knows what else to try
and make sure there's no competition
that to me should never happen in 21st
century democracy and I agree actually
with labor implied on the fact that the
system we have is not fit for purpose
it's a duopoly it means that you guys
no choice election time you're
threatened with if you don't vote this
you get the other okay so let's get it
on the record then are you categorically
denying that any of those kind of calls
have been taking place no I tell you
what will have happened well you're not
denying tonight just so I'm clear
tonight I'll tell you exactly I know
there are a number there are a number of
people who went to the brexit party who
had been up until very very recently
conservatives and I have no doubt that
conservatives will have spoken to people
they know locally and said if you
genuinely want to deliver brexit the
only way of doing that is with a
conservative majority government I have
no doubt conversations like that have
been happening up and down the country
but as the chairman of a Conservative
Party
I'm telling you that I have no truck
with a pact or agreements Nigel Faraj
has asked for one for months we said no
the the Nigel Frost then said that he
decided that certain brexit party
candidates were going to stand down not
at our request at his insistence and the
point we have made consistently is there
is no deal there is no pact we will put
our candidates up you can put your
candidates up and out stage we will
stand tall we will stand for election
and we will allow the British people to
make their decision but the point is
absolutely cleared it was clear at the
start of this campaign as it's clear now
the only way to get brexit done and move
beyond it is by doing the deal that the
Prime Minister has negotiated with the
EU is ready to rock and roll
it will be delivered on the first as
soon as we get back after general action
if we have that working majority that
we're working towards okay
[Applause]
you